Absolutely haven't offended me. Shooting is, or should be, to stop a threat, not to kill, however most often those are the same thing, or at least very closely related. There are many examples of would be attackers being mortally wounded, yet continuing to fight for minutes afterwards. Even with only a marginal understanding of armed encounters, it is easy to understand that most any armed individual can expend all his ammo in less than a minute. 

I have a hard time understanding how it could even be reconsidered, that the right to a trial somehow supersedes the right to life of a would-be attacker. On top of that, the right to a trial exists to limit the power of our government to punish without trial, it in no way was intended to govern the actions of an individual. 

It has long been established that the fourth amendment does not protect you from an unreasonable search by a private entity. In much the same way the sixth amendments grants a right to trial by jury if one is charged by the government with a crime. The right to trial has no bearing on self defense, as there is no government involvement until after the fact. 

Lastly, I'll address the idea of shooting to "wound" or of "not shooting to kill." Simply put, self defense training all revolves around shooting center mass. We shoot center mass not because of a likelihood of killing, but rather because aiming at the largest portion of the body that is visible reduces the risk of hitting anyone other than the threat. Most armed confrontations result in more than 25 percent misses, probably more than 50 percent misses, even when aiming at a full sized human silhouette. To try in any way to regulate where a person aims when shooting in self defense would be catastrophic, and to ask people to sit idly by and be raped robbed or violently assaulted is not enforceable even if it were signed into law.




Thanks for the thorough response!

For your first point, I wouldn't dispute those examples at all. I know that there are other options that are used for defense, it just seems a bit extreme that we live in a society where the difference between defending and killing are so closely related. I wonder if there's a technology that can be developed.. like a special kind of bullet... that stops attackers but does not kill them. I know that's where tasers and mace come in, but they have their own problems. It also is problematic that a gun for defense is still not good enough. It's like we need better options. My follow on question is "are guns are best current option for self defense?" 25-50+% misses are horrible odds. Are we OK that those are the best options we have?

For the next point, I would agree that the right to life (of the defender) trumps right of trial (of the attacker), for sure. I just thought it was an interesting discussion -- like how robbers can sue homeowners when they hurt themselves. It's like no matter how badly you behave, you still have basic rights (in that example, the right to sue) or with the lack of the death penalty, the right to life. So what rights, if any, does an attacker have? Do they have the right to life? If an attacker escalates a situation, does the defender have the right to double-down and escalate more? Words -> Fist -> Knife -> gun -> grenade -> nuke? Self defense with a gun suggests that a defender experiencing an attack has the right to kill their attacker.

We see something similar in movies all the time -- when one person gets "cheated" and strikes out in outrage. We sympathize with the attacker and rationalize their motives. "Oh, he walked in on his wife with his brother? Yeah I understand why he went postal." - there was a really good mealtimevideos about Pixar's story arch that talks about this at a high level -- https://www.reddit.com/r/mealtimevideos/comments/4f4lda/pixar_scriptwriter_describes_how_they_create_a/

But back on topic, I think the things you brought up are:
1. How enforceable are the collective decisions / agreements we make as a society?
2. What reparations are made when those agreements are broken?
3. What role do guns have in our society in terms of self-defense?

Here's another tangent that I went on, but is not completely relevant, I just didn't want to delete it:

I would suggest that the right to a "fair trial" ensures "due process" -- which to me means that the "heat of the moment" (the order) is balanced by the "due process" (the law). ie: slowing down the process of conviction allows for more agreeable / mutual outcomes, which leads to a "more stable" society.

I think the point that interests me about that is the concept of thinking outside of the moment. Self defense, to me, is about re-gaining control of the situation and de-escalating the moment. People have moments of escalation. It's life. Luckily, my experience has been minimal with regards to physical self defense. Probably because I sit on a computer and surround myself in those environments. From that, admittedly safe, perspective -- I've focused my efforts and interactions on simply not being in and around physical scenarios where I could lose physical control. A contrived example, but consider driving habits, and the differences between defensive driving and road-rage. I drive a prius, not just to save the environment or save money, but because it calms my aggressive driving tendencies. It's my way of de-escalating my human tendencies and is a reminder to think longer-term (those other things help too).

Now I'm don't think that everyone is the same, or anyone can be considered pure. I did drive a Lexus IS250 for about a year and got a "super speeder" ticket (in Georgia on I-90, tyvm 　 ) before I realized that I was pushing the rules of society too far and switched back to a prius. So I'd like to think I'm doing what I can to de-escalate that situation I was causing and think more long term. Back to the topic, I'd like to think that by choosing to not own a gun I'm de-escalating my household's options for escalation of situations to guns. I hope any robber, rapist, or assaulter we face sticks to fists or knives -- because any item we have is not worth even the chance of taking life. That said, we did choose our current house over other, more attractive options, based on crime levels.

And as always, thanks for detailing and sharing your perspective, I really appreciate it!
